# 1-3 Exercises

## Exercise 1.1

1. vINcent - atom
2. Footmassage - variable
3. variable23 - atom
4. Variable200 - variable 
5. big_kahuna_burge - atom
6. 'big kahuna burger' - atom
7. big kahuna burger - neither
8. 'Jules' - atom
9. _Jules - variable 
10. '_Jules' - atom 

-> Everything correct


## Exercise 1.2

Which of the following sequences of characters are atoms, 
which are variables, which are complex terms, and which are not terms at all? 
Give the functor and arity of each complex term.

1 loves(Vincent,mia) -> complex term functor = loves/2
2 ’loves(Vincent,mia)’ -> atom 
3 Butch(boxer) -> not a term (cannot start with a capital letter)
4 boxer(Butch) -> complex term boxer/1  
5 and(big(burger),kahuna(burger)) complex term and/2
6 and(big(X),kahuna(X)) -> same 
7 _and(big(X),kahuna(X)) -> same **WRONG: functor cannot start with and underscore**  
8 (Butch  kills  Vincent) -> neither
9 kills(Butch  Vincent) -> complex term kills/2 **Why is this not a term?**
10 kills(Butch,Vincent -> neither


## Exercise 1.3
How many facts, rules, clauses, and predicates are there in the following knowledge base? 
What are the heads of the rules, and what are the goals they contain?

1   woman(vincent).
2   woman(mia).
3   man(jules).
4   person(X):-  man(X);  woman(X).
5   loves(X,Y):-  father(X,Y).
6   father(Y,Z):-  man(Y),  son(Z,Y).
7   father(Y,Z):-  man(Y),  daughter(Z,Y).

**facts:** 3
**rules: ** 4
**clauses: ** 7
**predicates:** 7
**heads:**
 - loves(X,Y)
 - father(Y,Z)
**goals:** 
 - man(Y)
 - son(Z,Y)
 - daughter(Z,Y)
 
 ### Extra Information
 What's the difference between functor, a fact, a predicate and a rule in Prolog? 
 https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53266306/whats-the-difference-between-functor-a-fact-a-predicate-and-a-rule-in-prolog
 
 
 ## 1.4 Represent the following in Prolog:

1 Butch is a killer. -> killer(butch).
2 Mia and Marsellus are married. -> married(mia,marsellus).
3 Zed is dead. dead(zed).
4 Marsellus kills everyone who gives Mia a footmassage. kills(marsellus,X) :- gives_footmassage(X,mia).
5 Mia loves everyone who is a good dancer. -> loves(mia,X):- good_dancer(X).
6 Jules eats anything that is nutritious or tasty. eats(jules,X):- nutritious(X);nutritious(X).

## 1.5 
   wizard(ron).
   hasWand(harry).
   quidditchPlayer(harry).
   wizard(X):-  hasBroom(X),  hasWand(X).
   hasBroom(X):-  quidditchPlayer(X).
   
How does Prolog respond to the following queries?

wizard(ron). -> true
witch(ron). -> prodecure does not exist
wizard(hermione). -> false
witch(hermione). -> witch doesn't exist
wizard(harry). ->  true
wizard(Y). -> ron , harry
witch(Y). -> not defined



# Mistakes made
Not knowing the difference between predicates clauses, rules, heads, terms, complex terms, arity etc...