# 2.3 Exercises
## Exercise  2.1
Which of the following pairs of terms unify?
Where relevant, give the variable instantiations that lead to successful unification.

1 bread  =  bread -> already insantiated **wrong: is already true**
2 ’Bread’  =  bread -> cannot 
3 ’bread’  =  bread -> cannot **wrong: true 
4 Bread  =  bread -> Bread becomes bread 
5 bread  =  sausage -> cannot instantiate an atom to another atom 
6 food(bread)  =  bread -> cannot 
7 food(bread)  =  X -> X becomes food(bread) 
8 food(X)  =  food(bread) -> X becomes bread 
9 food(bread,X)  =  food(Y,sausage) -> Y becomes bread and X becomes sausage
10 food(bread,X,beer)  =  food(Y,sausage,X) -> fails -> X can only take one value
11 food(bread,X,beer)  =  food(Y,kahuna_burger) -> don't have the same arity
12 food(X)  =  X -> X cannot contain itself 
13 meal(food(bread),drink(beer))  =  meal(X,Y) -> X is food(bread) and Y drink(beer)
14 meal(food(bread),X)  =  meal(X,drink(beer)) -> X cannot be two things at once

## Exercise  2.2 We are working with the following knowledge base:

   house_elf(dobby).
   witch(hermione).
   witch(’McGonagall’).
   witch(rita_skeeter).
   magic(X):-  house_elf(X).
   magic(X):-  wizard(X).
   magic(X):-  witch(X).
Which of the following queries are satisfied? 
Where relevant, give all the variable instantiations that lead to success.

1 ?-  magic(house_elf). true -> false
2 ?-  wizard(harry). false
3 ?-  magic(wizard). -> false
4 ?-  magic(’McGonagall’). -> true 
5 ?-  magic(Hermione). ->dobby, herione, mcgonagall, ritaskeeter

## Exercise  2.3 
Here is a tiny lexicon (that is, information about individual words)
and a mini grammar consisting of one syntactic rule 
(which defines a sentence to be an entity consisting of five words 
in the following order: a determiner, a noun, a verb, a determiner, a noun).

   word(determiner,a).
   word(determiner,every).
   word(noun,criminal).
   word(noun,’big  kahuna  burger’).
   word(verb,eats).
   word(verb,likes).
   
   sentence(Word1,Word2,Word3,Word4,Word5):-
         word(determiner,Word1),
         word(noun,Word2),
         word(verb,Word3),
         word(determiner,Word4),
         word(noun,Word5).
What query do you have to pose in order to find out which sentences 
the grammar can generate? List all sentences that this grammar can 
generate in the order that Prolog will generate them in.

sentence(A,B,C,D,E,F).

## 2.4 Here are six Italian words:

astante , astoria , baratto , cobalto , pistola , statale .

They are to be arranged, crossword puzzle fashion, in the following grid:

word(astante,  a,s,t,a,n,t,e).
word(astoria,  a,s,t,o,r,i,a).
word(baratto,  b,a,r,a,t,t,o).
word(cobalto,  c,o,b,a,l,t,o).
word(pistola,  p,i,s,t,o,l,a).
word(statale,  s,t,a,t,a,l,e).

crossword(V1,V2,V3,H1,H2,H3):-
    word(V1,_,V1H1,_,V1H2,_,V1H3,_),
    word(V2,_,V2H1,_,V2H2,_,V2H3,_),
    word(V3,_,V3H1,_,V3H2,_,V3H3,_),
    word(H1,_,V1H1,_,V2H1,_,V3H1,_),
    word(H2,_,V1H2,_,V2H2,_,V3H2,_),
    word(H3,_,V1H3,_,V2H3,_,V3H3,_).
    

# Mistakes
'bread' = bread **true**
food(X) = X works -> X = food(X)