# 4-4 Exercises

## Exercise  4.1 
How does Prolog respond to the following queries?

```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,[b,c,d]].``` false list of 4 items vs list of 2 items
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a|[b,c,d]].``` true tail of a list is always a list. 
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b,[c,d]].``` false 4 item list vs 3 item list
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b|[c,d]].``` true 
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b,c,[d]].``` true -> **false**  [d] is not the tail of the list, so it is a separate object
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b,c|[d]].``` **true**  
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b,c,d,[]].``` false 4 item list vs 5 item list 
```[a,b,c,d]  =  [a,b,c,d|[]].``` true last element of a list is the empty list. 
```[]  =  _.``` false  sth that's not a list vs an empty list 
```[]  =  [_].``` false  a not empty list vs an empty list 
```[]  =  [_|[]].``` false an empty list vs a non empty list 


## Exercise  4.2 
Which of the following are syntactically correct lists? 
If the representation is correct, how many elements does the list have?

[1|[2,3,4]] -> 4
[1,2,3|[]]-> 3
[1|2,3,4] -> not correct 
[1|[2|[3|[4]]]] -> 4
[1,2,3,4|[]] -> 4
[[]|[]] -> 0 **1 -> the empty list contains one element**
[[1,2]|4] -> true 
[[1,2],[3,4]|[5,6,7]] -> 5

## Exercise  4.3 
Write a predicate second(X,List) which checks whether X is 
the second element of List .

second(H2,[_,H2|_]).


## Exercise 4.4
Write a predicate swap12(List1,List2) which checks whether List1 is identical 
to List2, except that the first two elements are exchanged.

swap12([H1,H2|T],[H2,H1|T]).

## Exercise 4.5

``` 
listtran([],[]).
listtran([H1|T], [Htran|TranT]):-
    tran(H1,Htran),
    listtran(T,TranT).```
	
	
## xercise  4.6
Write a predicate twice(In,Out) whose left argument is a list, 
and whose right argument is a list consisting of every element in the left 
list written twice. For example, the query

   twice([a,4,buggle],X).
should return

   X  =  [a,a,4,4,buggle,buggle]).
And the query

   twice([1,2,1,1],X).
should return


**Solution**
```twice([],[]).
twice([H|T],[H,H|X]):-
    twice(T,X).```

   X  =  [1,1,2,2,1,1,1,1].
(Hint: to answer this question, first ask yourself “What should happen when the first argument is the empty list?”. That’s the base case. For non-empty lists, think about what you should do with the head, and use recursion to handle the tail.)



## Exercise  4.7
Draw the search trees for the following three queries:

   ?-  member(a,[c,b,a,y]).
   
   ?-  member(x,[a,b,c]).
   
   ?-  member(X,[a,b,c]).
   

### Mistakes
Variables start with capital letters. Don't accidentally name a variable with a lower case letter